(fireworks popping)
(gasps)
SHINPEI: Ushio...
Ushio.
(gasps)
-(Shinpei groans)
-Shinpei!
(giggles)
USHIOH: What the heck are you doing here?
Did you come back?
(Ushioh chuckles)
SHINPEI: I could ask you
the same question.
Huh?
SHINPEI: That necklace,
it's the only one in the world,
and Ushio's shadow is wearing it.
Ushio is dead.
We had a funeral two days ago.
Funeral?
No, you're not her.
There's no way you're Ushio!
USHIOH: Huh? What are you talking about?
Of course, I'm alive. Look at me.
You see? I'm right here, silly!
SHINPEI: What's it talking about?
Oh, god. It's a shadow. No doubt about it.
You... You really don't remember
what happened to you?
Huh?
Wait.
USHIOH: Why am I...
I don't know what I'm doing here.
(Shinpei gasps)
I don't know... Did I...
That's so weird.
You don't remember
how you ended up here at all?
(breathes sharply)
I can't breathe.
SHINPEI: Oh...
All I can remember
is that I couldn't breathe at all.
USHIOH: When I was down there,
underwater, everything suddenly got dark.
What? No way! What the...
Uh, hold on. I think I get it now. I died?
Then what am I? Am I a... a ghost?
Wait a second.
I do have real feet, though.
SHINPEI: Does it really believe
that it's the real Ushio? There's no way.
USHIOH: I remember one thing for sure.
In the dark at the very end,
I wished I could see you one last time.
I just wanted to see your face again.
(Ushioh sobs)
Maybe that's why I'm here with you
right now. I'm glad.
(soft chuckle)
SHINPEI: Her voice. Her gestures.
Calm down. What is this?
It's crazy, but it feels
like Ushio really came back
and is standing in front of me.
USHIOH: Hey, Shinpei. You listening?
There was something I wanted to tell you
if I ever saw you again.
I like you.
Huh?
USHIOH: I want to say...
(chuckles)
Shinpei, I love you!
(theme music)
(gasps)
SHINPEI: What did... did it just say?
(stutters)
Love? What did it mean by that?
Uh, what... what are you saying?
Did dying make you lose your mind?
(chuckles)
I don't know.
-Mm...
-Oh, man.
My head feels a little bit cloudy.
(exhales sharply)
SHINPEI: Don't be fooled.
See the big picture!
Just two days ago, they put Ushio
in a coffin and cremated her.
She's no longer with us.
But it's acting just like the real Ushio.
I wonder what it wants.
Why? Why did you come here?
I wish I knew the answer to all of that.
Don't you go to...
to heaven right after you pass away?
Why are you here? What do you guys want?
Um, what do I want?
USHIOH: Shinpei. Those fireworks.
Is today the 24th of July?
SHINPEI: Uh, yeah.
USHIOH: No way!
Oh, there's... there's something
I wanted to do!
I want to go
to the summer festival with you!
(giggles)
Uh... Hey!
Shinpei! Hurry up!
SHINPEI: I don't think it realizes
it's a shadow.
(background chatter)
SHINPEI: Has it really convinced itself
that it's Ushio and not a shadow?
(indistinct chatter)
(Ushioh humming)
(grunts)
Shinpei, hey! I wanna try this!
SHINPEI: What the...
Why is she wearing her swimsuit?
(grunts)
Idiot! You stick out like a sore thumb!
Man, that smells so incredible!
Let's get some takoyaki!
There's no time for that!
And what if someone recognizes you?
SHINPEI: How could I ever manage
to explain this?
Come on over! Step right up!
You won't find a better bargain
for octopus this huge!
VENDOR: Fresh and delicious!
Come and get it! Try some!
You won't regret it!
(Ushioh shouting in distance)
WOMAN: Hey guys! Wait for me!
(indistinct chatter)
Hey, Shinpei. I don't understand
why we need to hide like this.
I'm getting really hungry.
Aren't Mio and the others here?
I wanna see them. Hmm...
You can't! Absolutely not!
Think about this, just think
about the situation for a second.
Listen, you just died, okay?
Your funeral was two days ago.
-But I--
-Don't give me that!
-Whoa.
-You're a shadow.
You're a... You're a ghost or whatever.
But everyone can see you!
What am I supposed to do?
Are you saying you don't want me
to see everyone?
Of course I don't!
Just hide right here until the festival
is over and everyone's gone.
(Ushioh grunts)
-Shinpei, you're such a jerk!
-(groans)
Why do you keep going on
about all this bullcrap?
Stop acting like this or else...
SHINPEI: Or else? She already hit me.
(groaning)
She really is just like Ushio. Seriously.
SHINPEI: I had a long conversation
with Ushio's shadow,
about how it's been two years
since I left this place,
and about our childhood.
It had all of Ushio's memories.
Do you know who my favorite author is?
Ryunosuke Nagumo, right?
We saw a movie based
on one of his books. Remember?
SHINPEI: It was so strange.
It was talking to me
like it knew nothing about shadows.
And it didn't seem to remember
how Ushio died.
So you're not worried about Shiori?
About what happened?
Hm? What's going on with Shiori?
SHINPEI: It didn't seem like
she was acting at all.
Nothing. Never mind.
(cell phone buzzing)
Oh.
-A call?
-Hang on.
-SHINPEI: It's Mio.
-(Ushioh chuckles)
-Gimme.
-Hey! Stop!
(chuckles)
Oh, hey, is this Mio?
Well?
(both grunting)
MIO: Uh, hey, Sis?
Hi, it's me! Hey, are you... Mio?
It's just me, yeah.
MIO: I swear,
I thought I heard Sis' voice.
(gasps)
SHINPEI: Of course not.
Are you kidding? Are you okay?
Right. Uh, right, of course.
-I'm sorry. It was just my imagination.
-Mm-mm.
MIO: Shin-chan, where are you, anyway?
The fireworks are over already.
We're over by the shrine now.
The Farewell Ceremony is starting.
I'm close by. Yeah, I'm coming.
Be there right away.
Okay, so?
(grunting)
You need to just stay put right here!
Hey! Stop it!
SHINPEI: Ugh,
I'll come get you later. Okay?
(grunts)
You might not realize it right now,
but something really crazy is going on.
(both grunt)
Aren't you the one who said,
"Take care of Mio. Look after her"?
Regret is the last thing I need.
What is he talking about? Hm!
USHIOH: I never said that to him.
"Take care of Mio"?
-(Shinpei panting)
-Huh?
-Look. He's finally here. Hi, Shin-chan.
-(Shinpei panting)
What took you so long?
I was really worried about you.
"Mountain."
Sorry, I just had terrible stomach issues.
"Me... Mesopotamia," right?
Told you guys, he was just pooping.
TOKIKO: So, what's with the smirk?
(awkward chuckle)
SHINPEI: In Hitogashima,
they say that God lives in things
that come from the sea.
This belief is deeply rooted
on the island.
That's the legend of Hiruko-no-Mikoto.
Around here, people call it Hiruko,
after the god of fishing and luck.
This time of year,
people collect driftwood from the beach,
and burn it all up,
it's known as the Farewell Ceremony,
sending off the gods.
Every year, it brings
quite an impressive crowd to the island.
Around a thousand people are here.
It's been so long since we all came out
to the Farewell Ceremony together.
That's true.
-Ushio is watching, too!
-Huh?
Watching from heaven.
-Oh, that's what you mean. Of course.
-(sobbing)
MIO: I wonder if it's okay to be here
at the summer festival
since Sis just died.
I really wish she could be here
with us tonight.
Right.
-Oh, hey, Sou, uh...
-Mm...
You wanted to talk?
My brother is planning on telling Mio
how he feels tonight.
SHINPEI: Huh? He... He can't be serious.
TOKIKO: I love my brother, I do,
but he can be crazy.
Well, crazy things have been known
to happen sometimes, right?
Yes.
But this time, he has no chance.
Uh? Why not?
Because Mio... Mio has...
has her eye on someone else.
Oh. Who?
Ah! You know, I'm really not supposed
to say anything.
-SOU: Shinpei!
-Oh.
Tokiko. Come here. Both of you.
Uh, so listen, Mio. Okay, Mio.
SOU: I don't know
if now is the right time for this.
But hear this. I wanna say something,
and I need you to know.
Uh...
I just wanna say
I'm in love with you, Mio!
(Sou grunts)
Please. Please let me... let me protect...
Please let me... let me protect you!
(gasps)
-Whoa. He actually said it.
-TOKIKO: He said it.
Wait! Sou, wait a second.
What are you saying?
Uh, I... I don't want to...
Everyone is listening.
(sighs)
(soft music)
MIO: I don't understand.
Why do you like me?
(grunts)
MIO: I'm really flattered, but I...
Uh, but I'm sorry that I can't say yes.
I think we're better off
if we just stay really good friends.
-Oh, dang!
-Totally saw that one coming.
USHIOH: Hey, I'm just here in time!
BOTH: Huh?
(Ushioh snickers)
Hmm?
USHIOH: Hey, Sou.
Huh?
-Don't worry.
-Huh?
SHINPEI: I thought I told you
not to come out!
Oh...
(gasps)
SHINPEI: That idiot!
(snickers)
Ah, that beautiful blonde hair.
And is that... voice...
-SOU: Ushio?
-What?
What... Huh? That... That... Whoa!
Uh, I... I'm... I'm not Ushio, guys!
I'm the fighter of love from...
-Pretty Cure!
-Hey.
USHIOH: Shinpei, they knew it was me.
You idiot! You really call
that mask a disguise?
Shin... Shinpei. Are... Are you tell me...
USHIOH: I'm sorry.
I just wanted to see all of you.
Did Tokiko dress you?
Mio, the yukata looks fantastic on you.
Oh, no.
(foreboding music)
USHIOH: Mio?
What are you doing, Shin-chan?
Get away from it! Be careful!
MIO: That's not actually my real sister!
USHIOH: Huh?
It's a monster!
(gasps)
Mio.
(breathes heavily)
-I'm not going to let her go.
-(groans)
(Mio gasps)
(Ushioh grunts)
USHIOH: Hey, that hurts. Shinpei?
(Ushioh whimpering)
Hold on, Mio.
SOU: Shinpei! Explain yourself, now!
What's wrong with you?
(Ushioh grunting)
SHADOW SHINPEI: You can't switch places
with someone who's dead and buried.
(Ushioh grunts)
You never really wanted
to do this in the first place.
(gasps)
You're supposed to obey me.
And don't tell me you can't hear my voice.
Who are you? Everybody, run! Go now!
Run away!
(screams)
SHADOW SHINPEI: Too late.
USHIOH: Shinpei!
Th-This guy...
That isn't Shin-chan!
(suspenseful music)
(grunts)
(static)
SHADOW SHINPEI: It's time.
(panting)
SHINPEI: Mio, sorry I had
to leave so suddenly.
I don't want Mio worrying about me.
I need to apologize.
(Shinpei panting)
(zaps)
(gasps)
(Shinpei panting)
Shin-chan. I wanted to ask you something.
Do you have a minute?
(panting)
(static)
(groaning)
(choking)
SHINPEI: What?
I never even saw it make a move.
It happened that fast.
And no human could be this strong.
By the way, Shin-Chan,
I heard you managed
to get me on video, huh?
(choking)
I don't know how you pulled that off.
Unless you knew
I was going to be there somehow.
(groans, coughs)
How did you know?
(grunts)
SHINPEI: How does it know?
(gasps)
(groans)
This can't be real.
(grunts)
This is crazy.
Did it actually do all this?
How many people did it kill?
(groaning)
Who told you where I was?
It was the traitor, wasn't it?
(gasps)
SHINPEI: Who's the traitor?
MIOH: I can't just ignore that.
It would be a shame
if we let it mess up our plans.
Go find out how much he knows about us.
SHADOW SHINPEI: It's pretty patchy.
It just repeats and repeats.
(gasps)
There's something strange about my memory.
How many times
have you been killed before?
SHINPEI: This thing...
It has to be my shadow.
It copied me at that moment.
It has all my memories
up until that point.
Oh, no! If its memory gets updated,
it will find out!
It'll know that we've been
investigating shadows,
and it'll find out about "Mesopotamia."
Ushio... I don't know
why they come out like this.
I thought crowds would make things safer.
Just think, Shinpei!
It's over. It's over. It's over.
(groaning)
Focus and take the bird's-eye view!
All done?
Hold on.
We don't need him anymore.
-SHINPEI: Run away.
-No.
-SHINPEI: Run away or you're dead!
-No!
They'll kill everyone!
Wait a second. Don't kill him, Mio.
MIOH: Why not, Shin-chan?
Try to take the bird's-eye view.
Mom used to say that.
He'll die, but he can come back
and redo the day.
(gasps)
So he's in a loop, then?
Think your memories are accurate?
This isn't some video game.
He still doesn't have control
over any of it himself,
but all of this
would make a lot more sense
if he was in a time loop.
SHADOW SHINPEI: Let's brush up
on malleable space-time
and the fourth dimension.
Anything that would let someone
move easily through time.
I'm guessing he probably can't do
anything like that now,
but he could learn how in the future.
MIOH: Oh, god.
You read too many weird books.
If he can find his way back to the 22nd
with everything he knows,
he could cause problems,
he'll get in our way eventually.
So just don't kill him
until everything is done.
(Shinpei breathes shakily)
I'm gonna go up. Give me his phone.
It's in his left back pocket.
Oh, send some people down to get Ushio.
She's at the storage area,
over by the big tent.
MIOH: All right. Fine.
You should get going.
You-know-who
is a stickler for punctuality.
Right.
(grunts)
Dammit. Wait.
SHINPEI: Stop.
(Shadow Shinpei sighs)
SHADOW SHINPEI: Oh, man.
You're so pathetic.
As it turns out,
you really can't protect anyone, can you?
(grunts)
Wait. Wait. Stop!
(Shinpei grunts)
Don't even think about touching Mio!
(grunts)
(groans)
(chuckles)
Come on. Cut it out, Shin-chan.
Stop trying to be a hero.
You know it's too late.
In no time, Mom will be waking up.
(grunting)
MIOH: Come on, stay still. Come on.
Wow, who knew
you were so stubborn, Shin-chan?
(Shinpei grunts)
SHINPEI: Mio!
MIOH: I'll break this side, too.
-(squeaking)
-(Shinpei grunting)
(gunshot)
-(blood splatters)
-(Shinpei gasps)
(static)
(clinks)
-(gunshot)
-(gun cocks)
(foreboding music)
(Shinpei whimpering)
Narezushi isn't all that common
in Hitogashima.
(gasps)
I haven't had a chance to try it just yet.
And what about yourself, huh?
Huh? What?
SHINPEI: I know that woman.
From the ferry!
(closing theme music)